git add README.md
git commit -m "Add README file for Bank Marketing Project II"
git push

Bank Marketing Project II - Classifier Model Development
Project Overview
In this project, we apply machine learning techniques to classify potential customers based on their likelihood of subscribing to a term deposit as part of a Portuguese bank's direct marketing campaign. Using a dataset containing 17 variables (age, job, marital status, education, etc.), the goal is to predict whether an individual will become a customer. The project demonstrates various data science workflows, including data cleaning, exploration, model selection, and performance optimization. Additionally, the project includes a 3 to 5-minute presentation summarizing the key findings and results.

The project is built on concepts like data cleaning, supervised learning, and model evaluation, making it a great addition to your data science portfolio.

Concepts Covered
Data cleaning and preparation
Data exploration and visualization (including a mandatory heat map)
Supervised machine learning (using at least two models)
Model selection and performance improvement (including techniques like hyperparameter tuning)
Final model evaluation with accuracy and other relevant metrics
Installation Instructions
Clone the repository:

bash
Copy code
git clone <your-repo-link>
Install the required libraries: Create a virtual environment and install dependencies:

bash
Copy code
pip install -r requirements.txt
The requirements.txt should include:

pandas
numpy
matplotlib
seaborn
scikit-learn
Download the dataset: Download the bank-additional-full.csv dataset from the UCI Machine Learning Repository, and place it in the project directory.

Run the project: Use Jupyter Notebook or Google Colab to run the BankMarketingProjectII.ipynb notebook:

bash
Copy code
jupyter notebook BankMarketingProjectII.ipynb
Usage
Open BankMarketingProjectII.ipynb to follow the entire process, from data cleaning to final model evaluation.
The code demonstrates how to:
Load and cleanse the data.
Handle missing values and duplicates.
Explore the data with visualizations, including a mandatory heat map.
Train and test machine learning models.
Compare model performance using metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score.
Use hyperparameter tuning to optimize model performance.
Features
Data Cleaning & Preprocessing: Handle missing values, detect duplicates, and scale features where necessary.
Model Selection: At least two machine learning models (e.g., Logistic Regression, Random Forest) are trained, evaluated, and compared.
Model Performance: Accuracy and other metrics are used to assess the model’s performance, with a focus on addressing class imbalance and optimizing results.
Visualization: Five visualizations are generated, including a mandatory heat map, to provide insights into the data and model performance.
Model Optimization: Hyperparameter tuning is performed using techniques such as GridSearchCV to optimize the model.
Technologies Used
Programming Language: Python
Libraries:
pandas for data manipulation.
numpy for numerical operations.
scikit-learn for machine learning model training and evaluation.
matplotlib and seaborn for data visualization.
Development Tools: Jupyter Notebook or Google Colab
Project Workflow
Data Loading & Cleansing:

Load the dataset (bank-additional-full.csv) and remove duplicates.
Handle missing values and perform data preprocessing such as feature scaling and encoding.
Data Exploration & Visualization:

Visualize key variables using bar charts, histograms, and scatter plots.
Generate a heat map to visualize correlations between features.
Model Selection & Training:

Split the data into training and testing sets using an 80/20 split.
Train two supervised machine learning models.
Evaluate models using accuracy, precision, recall, and F1-score.
Performance Optimization:

Apply regularization and hyperparameter tuning (e.g., GridSearchCV) to improve model performance.
Final Model Evaluation:

Summarize the best-performing model, including the preprocessing steps, optimizations, and final evaluation metrics.
Example Models Trained
Logistic Regression: A simple baseline model for classification tasks.
Random Forest Classifier: An ensemble model used for improved performance.
Presentation
A 3-5 minute presentation is prepared, summarizing the key findings of the project, including model results and insights drawn from the data exploration phase.

Credits
Dataset: UCI Machine Learning Repository - Bank Marketing Dataset
Project guidance and instructions: QuickStart Inc., and Jeff's notes.
Contact Information
Email: mtra.rose.vazquez@gmail.com
LinkedIn: Rose Marie Vazquez
